# Air-Quality

## Description of Project
As part of my independent capstone study in computational research and data analysis this year, I created a heat map of benzene concentrations in the air in certain Manhattan zip code locations. The air quality project in particular allowed me to explore the geopandas, folium, pandas, and numpy libraries. The most difficult part of the project was combining different datatypes in order to produce the heatmap. The folium library, which I used to create the heat map, required two-dimensional data points: a set of a latitude and longitude value. However, the data with the benzene concentrations were sorted by New York City UHF region – 42 distinct regions consisting of several zip code values. Since that document did not provide enough information to plot a latitude and longitude point, I had to use two other documents to create a data set with benzene concentrations alongsize a latitude and longitude point. One document was a list of zip codes for each UHF, and another document was a list of latitude and longitude points for each zip code in the United States. So, after organizing the benzene data set and removing unnecessary data columns, I added a column to that set which contained a randomly selected zip code based on the UHF region of the specific benzene concentration value. Finally, after cutting down the huge zip code and coordinates document to the zip codes in New York City, I added two columns to the benzene data set which contained the latitude and longitude for the zip code of that specific benzene concentration. Now, I had a data set that cut down and combined three different original data sets. It is important to note that none of this organization was done by hand – it was done with code that sorted through the datasets the way I wanted it to. 

## Significance
During this project, I learned about how the majority of the world's data is left untouched. When trying to come up with an idea for this small project with Ms. Mitchell, I had to find very specific data sets which I found through Kaggle, the NYC Open Data site, and other public github repositories. Searching through all these databases made me realize just how much data exists for just about anything you can think of. 
